workers are on sale for rich people because rich
people have made a ton of money, the price of
everything has gone up and wages have not
kept upso wages are cheap, workers are cheap,
rich people are laughing right and ordinary
peopleare struggling so that is why these guys
are trying to hire more labour
because its super cheap for them
okay this one is strikes wages and the job
market in general what do we think about that
so there's been a lot of interesting economic
discussion of the job market in the last couple
of years since lockdown okay and a lot
of economists have been confused because
wages have been falling significantly in real
terms and yet job vacancies are all-time lows
so first let's cover this; are wages going
down or going up right because in real terms
sorry in nominal terms, wages are increasing the
fastest they've ever been for ages they're going up
about 4-5% a year but when we compare
it to inflation that's a real terms fall of like
negative five percent so first things first what
matters is the real value of your wages, wages are
collapsing sometimes that's misconstrued in the
media they say wages are rising wages are not
wages are falling really really quickly, living standards
are falling, why are economies confused okay
so if wages are falling they think well the job
market must be weak because wages are going down
but there are super *high* vacancy levels
right so they're saying well that is
a sign that the job market is strong it's
easy to get a job because there's you know
sorry super high vacancy level so
there's really high vacancy levels
people are struggling to find workers right,
people wanna hire workers but the wages are low so
is the job market strong or is the job marketweek?
wages are falling - weak job market, companies are
struggling to find workers - strong job market
and I think this can easily be understood if
we understand that what happened during COVID
waspartially a massive devaluation of the currency
so we've been speaking from the very beginning
of the channel about the fact that since the
beginning of COVID an enormous amount of money
has been distributed by governments across the
world, 700 billion pounds in the UK, 8 trillion
dollars in the US; massive amounts of cash
this cash has been accumulated largely in the bank
accounts of richer people, if people have way way
way more money, effectively that means that money
has been devalued so what that means is the value
of money is less so if the price of everything
is to stay the same it needs to go up, so let's
say the value of money goes down 20%, the price of
everything needs to increase by 25% to offset that
the problem is some prices are able to change much
more quickly than other prices so if Sainsbury's wants
to increase the price of its pasta, it's easy you
know it's not difficult to do you know what I mean
if the price of wheat on global markets or oil
needs to change it happens at the blink of an eye
some prices are easy to increase but your wage
is not easy to increase right you can't just be
like oh well sorry currency's been devalued so
I'll give it myself a 20% wage increase right you
can't do that, so what that means is, the prices
which companies can change automatically
like basic goods and services, like the price of
basic essentials they all go up super quickly
but your wage doesn't, this is what economists
call a 'sticky price' certain prices are hard
to change, you can't change your own wage, so
that means that all of the prices of goods and
essentials goes up but your wage stays the same,
what does that mean? your wage has been cut so
the devaluation of currency has allowed for a
significant cut in the wages of everybody in
the country at the same time we've given enormous
amounts of cash to the richest 10,15,20 percent
but what does that mean? well companies have
the cost especially if you're selling to richer
people your business is booming because
people are flush with cash (richer people)
wages are super cheap right because they've
been cut 10% real terms you're going to try
and hire more people simple and I think once you
understand that what's happened is a massive cut
in wages well then it makes sense of course there
are a lot of vacancies of course there are a lot
of jobs because labour's really cheap, labour is
super cheap, richer people are flush with cash
& I tell you if you go to central London it'sbooming,
it's booming because richer people who arethe
people who go to restaurants in central Londonoften,
have got loadsa cash and labour is really really cheap
so what has happened in the last two
three years is that the increase in inequality
caused by COVID policy and the decrease in the
value of currency caused by COVID policy have
allowed a massive decrease in real wages which is
the main reason why living standards have fallen
which is why we see what we see in the
job market so that raises the questionof
what do we think about the strikes?
what do we think about people's wages?
well of course it's totally unacceptable that living
standards for nurses for teachers are collapsing
at the same time as we have seen the largest and
fastest ever increase in millionaire billion a
month in the country it's totally unacceptable
and these people should get a pay increase
but you have the problem of it's very difficult
to fix the symptoms, if you don't fix the cause
700 billion pounds has been transferred
from the government to the richest people
in the country, the government's financial
situation has deteriorated, it's as simple
as that, the government's financial situation has
deteriorated and if the government is superpoor
how do they pay a decent public sector wage?
you see what I'm saying so of course 100 percent
government workers, NHS workers, teachers should get
their pay increases they shouldn't be accepting
what they are asking which is five-ten percent(real)
decrease in wages, when the rich are making a ton
of money, but the question which is never spoken
about has to be spoken about more of where the
money comes from needs to be discussed because
if you don't tax the rich who've made a ton ofmoney
then you're going to end up taxing ordinary
working people are increasingly being squeezed
so should the public sector workers get their
pay increases? yes, who should pay for it?
the group of people who've seen the biggest
and fastest ever increase in their wealth
and their living standards in the history of
the country which is the rich & the super rich
Thank You
money currently is flowing from the
government to the rich, leaving the
government with big piles of debt and
the rich with big piles of money there's
there's 1 other thing they can do with that massive
amount of income, they can buy your mum's house!